# H5 Configuring Windows settings using SALT 

In this report I'm going to configure some settings from my old laptop and do some actual configurations to make it usable.

## Computer specs

Computer specs from my desktop that is running [Xubuntu 18.04.1](http://ftp.lysator.liu.se/ubuntu-dvd/xubuntu/releases/18.04/release/) .

- OS: Xubuntu 18.04.1 (bootable USB, original OS Windows 10 Professional N)
- CPU: Intel i5 6600k @ 3.5GHz
- GPU: Nvidia Geforce GTX 1070
- RAM: 2x 8Gb DDR4 @ 2667MHz
- MoBo: Asus Maximus VIII Ranger (Boot menu opens with F8)

Computer specs from my old laptop that is currently running on Windows 7 Professional. I checked my hardware information using cmd and typing "systeminfo", which gathered available information about the systems hardware.

- OS: Windows 7 Professional
- CPU: 

Then I did some personal preference settings, updated my basic packet repositories and had my keyboard layout switched to Finnish.

```bash
setxkbmap fi
sudo apt-get update
```

And cloned my git repository:

```bash
sudo apt-get -y install git
sudo git clone https://github.com/AlfieLinux/salt.git
```

and added my credentials 

```bash
sudo git config --global user.email "tuomas.olkinuora@hotmail.fi"
sudo git config --global user.name "Tuomas Olkinuora"
```


## [A) Configure windows with salt, so that Windows is the slave and Linux is the master.](http://terokarvinen.com/2018/aikataulu-%e2%80%93-palvelinten-hallinta-ict4tn022-3004-ti-ja-3002-to-%e2%80%93-loppukevat-2018-5p) (09:35)

I started by installing the required files for the master-slave relationship to work between my 2 computers. 

The first thing I did was installing git and salt-master on my master computer.

```bash
sudo apt-get -y install salt-master salt-minion
```

I first tried using my salt-master locally and it worked normally. I then checked the version of salt that was installed from the package repo which was "salt 2017.7.4 (Oxygen)". I then installed that version on my windows computer by going to [saltstack repo](https://repo.saltstack.com/windows/) and took the package that used AMD64 architecture and Python 3 "Salt-Minion-2017.7.4-Py3-AMD64-Setup.exe". I applied the information about my masters ip and minions id and got through with the installation.

After having salt-minion installed on my laptop it was time to wait a bit for it to show up on my salt-master. 

But somehow `sudo salt-key -L` or `sudo salt-key` wouldn't list my win7 computer, no matter how long I waited.

So I thought that my firewall might be the cause and allowed both of the salt ports I knew about on the salt-master computer.

```bash
sudo ufw allow 4505/tcp
sudo ufw allow 4506/tcp
```

And checked to see if the keys had showed up

```bash
$ sudo salt-key -L
```
```
$ sudo salt-key
Accepted Keys:
xubuntu
Denied Keys:
Unaccepted Keys:
Rejected Keys:
```

But only the key that I had accepted earlier showed up "xubuntu".

The second thing I tried to do was to updated my salt version by adding the newest package to the repository.

I checked how to do it from [Tero's Guide on how to control Windows using salt](http://terokarvinen.com/2018/control-windows-with-salt)


```bash
$ wget https://repo.saltstack.com/apt/ubuntu/16.04/amd64/latest/SALTSTACK-GPG-KEY.pub
$ sudo apt-key add SALTSTACK-GPG-KEY.pub  # New trust
```

To add the latest version from [saltstack repo](https://repo.saltstack.com/) and a new trust relationship

```bash
$ echo "deb http://repo.saltstack.com/apt/ubuntu/16.04/amd64/2018.3 xenial main"|sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/saltstack.list
```

Then I updated my package repository and installed the new packages

```bash
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get -y install salt-master salt-minion
$ sudo systemctl restart salt-minion
$ sudo systemctl restart salt-master
```

Restarted both services and tested that they work locally.

```bash
$ hostname -I
192.168.10.50 

$ echo "master: 192.168.10.50"
master: 192.168.10.50

$ echo "master: 192.168.10.50" | sudo tee /etc/salt/minion
master: 192.168.10.50

$ sudo systemctl restart salt-minion.service 

$ sudo salt-key
Accepted Keys:
Denied Keys:
Unaccepted Keys:
xubuntu
Rejected Keys:

$ sudo salt-key -A
The following keys are going to be accepted:
Unaccepted Keys:
xubuntu
Proceed? [n/Y] y
Key for minion xubuntu accepted.

$ sudo salt '*' test.ping
xubuntu:
    True

$ sudo salt '*' cmd.run "whoami"
xubuntu:
    root
```

And it worked like a charm, but locally.

I then tried to install the newest package from saltstack repo by hand on my windows laptop and it once again didn't go without trouble.

My laptop was crying to me about having an old license and since I couldn't find it from anywhere my computer was basically useless. This time it didn't even try to go through the installation but got stuck somewhere for 15 minutes and I decided to give up on it.

### What will I do now? (11:18)

Well since windows and both of my laptops are acting up I decided to boot one of them using Xubuntu and using my bigboi PC as the slave.
